In the last lecture we added some dynamic yet still static data tudy index of you follow the pages folder.
Now at this point here this is working.
But of course in a real app we typically load debt data from some server.
So if we render a list of posts we fetch that from a database and we need to connect to that database
or to a restful API that dust is before we can display the posts.
And that's still the case for a nextstep because as I mentioned earlier next is not a suicide framework
like Express.
You don't really have code in next where you would connect to a database and do that but there are some
ways of running some code on the server instead of the client.
Which is what's happening right now.
Right now everything runs on the client here but we can't change that.
Now in a normal app we would fetch data in deteriorated lifecycle.
For example we can add it by simply adding this method to our instance object to our component instance
object.
And now let's say loaded posts is actually an empty post an empty array initially.
It's like cut out the posts here and then create it.
Let's simulate did we reach out to a server for that all use a timer.
Now of course this is just a timer because I want to simulate that.
We reach out to a server.
So there is no deeper sense to this.
So let's say after one and a half seconds our results are there.
And hence this arrow function gets executed.
So that's a normal set time or function here.
We could then reach out to loaded posts and assign an array which holds the two posts we previously
directly assigned and data.
If we saved this and we reload this page you'll see it loads instantly and the posts are dead after
two seconds so we're one and a half seconds.
This works but it has one big downside.
The posts get loaded on the client and does this really important.
This is now not happening on the server.
We get the page immediately as you can see but the fact that the bottom part is empty but the top part
is populated and there offer it's loaded.
After this initial page has been rendered to the user this might be fine because we could show a spinner
instead of that white empty area.
The problem is if we're talking about search engine optimization we're not fixing the issue of the crawl
or not seeing anything because the crawler only looks at the initial page.
And if we inspect the source code of that initial page we see that we get nothing on the page.
It would be this empty section here.
So that of course is not that great would it be better if we could actually fetched data on the server
and wait for it to be fetched before we sent back that then finished page to the client that created
lifecycle.
Clearly doesn't work as we saw.
So what else does work.
Well there is a special property a special method actually we can use in page components and that is
important only in components of the pages folder that next will execute on the server and that's the
async data method.
Now it's pretty much the same as the normal data method.
This one is in the end has to return an object which will be the data of this component and has the
data you can use in the template but.
And that is important async data is executed on the server.
And if we execute that asynchronous task there like waiting for a timer or more realistic reaching out
to a back end to a server then it will wait for this task to finish before it returns the page to the
client.
Hence we will get a pre-rendered and complete page back to the client.
Now debt is really important.
Next we'll only call this method in pages though.
So if you add it in a component in one of your components like in a layout or in the components folder
this will simply not be executed and it will not work correctly.
You also shouldn't use normal data then to override something you plan on returning here because this
will execute on the client.
So it would override whatever you return here.
And you could get unwanted effects.
So let me comment out data here and now let's simply put our time or code into async data.
The problem just is here we need to return a javascript object so let's temporarily replace this.
And let's now make sure that we don't just set this loaded post equal to that.
This won't work but that instead we return a javascript object where we have a loaded post property
which value is Desirae and hence we need to close this object offered to closing square brackets.
Now one important note that this keyword.
This does not work as expected an async data because azing data runs but for this component is actually
created.
That's the idea behind it.
So if you try to access a method or a field from the normal data or anything like that this will not
give you the view component instance you won't be able to access your methods and so on because the
component has not been created yet this is really important that this keyword does not work like this
here.
You can't access your finished view component instance because it is not finished yet.
So what we're doing now is we're executing this time old function and we're returning a javascript object
which holds our loaded posts.
Now let's save this and let's execute this again.
And we get an error.
Now why is that.
The reason is simple.
We need to give async data an idea about when we're done otherwise if it doesn't get that idea it will
immediately just return the finished page.
Now how do we get this idea to async data.
One solution is to use a promise you instantly have to return a promise year a new promise maybe into
which you'll wrap your async code.
And if you're using a library like ex-U.S. which we will use later for making HTP requests that will
automatically give you promises which you then can simply return.
Because if you return a promise then async data will take that promise and kind of listen to it to be
resolved and rendered a page once that is resolved.
The alternative is that you use a Colback to async data you actually get an argument the context will
have a look at this in the second and the second argument you can get is a callback method you can execute
you execute it.
Once you're done the execution of that method then also tells the async data method that you're done.
So what you can do is you can go into set timeout and here wherever turn these posts instead of returning
dead I execute a callback method and then that Colback method I either pass an error occurred say if
you want to handle an error return by your HTP client or if you don't get an error you pass null and
the second argument now actually is the javascript argument that will be your data.
Once you're done so it will become your data you can access from your client.
So with this restructured we're calling to call back inside the said time load function and call back
I'm passing a javascript object with the loaded post.
S d answer or the second argument.
And this will therefore become the data we can access from within our template or anywhere else in this
view component.
Once it has been rendered.
Now let's save this file and see this in action.
If I reload this page let's click the reload button here.
It actually takes two seconds or one and a half seconds.
Here let's see.
It takes a bit but deaded reloads because now it waits for the async code to finish on the server and
then gives us the finished page and we can check the spine impacting the page source code.
Now here at the bottom we actually see our posts data as part of the source code because we get the
finished page sent back from the server and not as before just the page where we need to load the data
asynchronously in the client.
Now this happens on the server and this is way more search engine friendly because now the crawlers
sees what you see.